---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 8 - How Has the Internet Influenced You?
---

The internet has affected pretty much the entire world. From businesses and banking to gaming and television, the internet has influenced the entire world.

If I didn't have the internet I probably wouldn't have gotten into computer science and programming just because there were so many resources for me on the internet when I first wanted to learn how to program that it made it easy for me to get started. Without those resources I may have just given up when I wanted to learn how a computer works. Since I wouldn't have gotten into computer programming then I wouldn't be dual majoring and probably would barely know how to use a computer. The internet influenced what I wanted to do as a career and hobby.

Also I get pretty much all of my entertainment from the internet now. I play a decent amount of video games and some of them, mostly counter-strike, require an online connection to play competitively. These games are now part of a hobby that would not exist without the internet. They also provide entertainment when I watch professional gamers play. Along with video games I love watching Netflix and sometimes waste a lot of time watching shows on there. Without the internet I probably would get all of my work done in a more timely manner but then also be bored for most of the day.

And then there is Reddit. Reddit is where I go to get pretty much all of my entertainment. It is an open, online, forum to share about all types of hobbies, news, and mindless pictures of cats. It is the first tab I open when I open my web browser. There are many communities that I browse there but my favorite ones, and ones I contribute to are gamedev and mechanicalkeyboards. Reddit influences my buying decisions, especially for mechanical keyboards and computer parts.

There internet has probably also influenced me to spend more money because there are things that I found on the internet that I didn't even know about before.

The internet also makes doing research papers easier in my opinion. Using things like wikipedia to find sources or just google searching for a source makes gathering information easier.

Overall the internet has influenced me very much. From my entertainment to my buying decisions. It also has let me know more about what is going on in the world. Also it has provided me plenty of cat pictures.