---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 6 - The Difference between Humans and Computers
---

It wouldn't be sensible for a human to try and make Microsoft Word run on a computer by doing all of the computing and it wouldn't make sense to try and have your desktop computer try to do your laundry. You could try but neither would get very far.

While both humans and computers can both simulate a turing machine most of the time I believe that humans do not act like a turing machine at all. I think that humans, given time, can do pretty much anything a computer can do. Though it would probably take a very large amount of time for a human to do what a computer today can do in one second. For instance it takes me about a minute to solve an integral while it takes my calculator, a not very powerful computer by todays standards, about 1 second. Since it takes me about 60 times longer than a low power computer there are many incentives for companies to invest in computers to reduce the amount of time that it takes for a job to get done. This can be seen in many places. For instance, banking used to be all manual calculations and manual book keeping but now most, if not all, of banking is done using computers and computer software. There are many other cases where computers have replaced humans, especially with the rapid development of robotics, recently many jobs that once belonged to humans now belong to robots, while they may cost more in the beginning they get work done faster and more accurately than a human could. As for humans replacing computers there are many less instances, infact none that I could find, where a human replaced a computer.

While humans may not be a good computer there are other instances in modern science where biological systems have been used as computers. Biochemical computers do loops of chemical reactions in order to get results.<sup>[1]</sup>

Humans and computers are wildly different, but some of the ways they work can be shown to be similar processes, humans and computers both have to kind of initialize for the day, humans when they wake up and computers, at least computers that run operating systems, when they turn on. However there are only a few similarities between humans and computers, they are mostly completely different in how they work and how they think.

1) https://escholarship.org/uc/item/519217jp#

{% include twitter_plug.html %}