---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 7 - Topic Research Response
---

History of Computer Graphics (Group 4)

Summary:

1950's

Early computer graphics were used as tools for scientists

Ben Laposky created the first graphics image

SAGE used computer graphics for radar images

GM & IBM used computer graphics to design vehicles

TX-2 used to dispay images of the moon

1960's

John Whitney Sr. used computer graphics to create the title sequence for Vertigo

Scratchpad was created and used computer graphics

1970's

Xerox PARC

Gourad shading was created

CT Scanners used computer graphics

Phong shading technique expanded on Gourad shading

Computer graphics was starting to be used for architectural work

Apple 2 used vector graphics

Star Wars used computer graphics

1980's

Animation was now starting to become computer graphics

Puckman, later Pac-man was created

Donkey Kong was created

TRON widley used CGI

Mipmapping techniques for resampling and scalling images

Ray tracing for 3D graphics

NES was released in US in 1986, used graphics display

GIF and JPEG were created in 1987

Windows 2 had a graphical interface

1990's

SNES was released

Civilization 1 was released

OpenGL 1 was released in 1992

DOOM released

Jurassic Park heavily relied on CGI 

Playstation was released in Japan

Direct X was released in 1995

Nintendo 64 was released in 1996

MP4 was created as a video file format

Material:

I feel they could have done more than just a time line. For instance they could have explained the importance of things like OpenGL and Direct X or other major events in computer graphics. Overall it was okay but I am really hung up on them not expanding on anything really. They did cover a lot but not in depth.

They could have gone over modern computer graphics more. Things like Physics Based Rendering, ray tracing, anti-aliasing, shading and shadows, and multi-sampling.

Could have gone over how rendering hardware has improved.

Suggestions:

Definitely could have gone in depth on some important events. I really like the story behind OpenGL and Direct X and how Microsoft tried to sabotage OpenGL, I wish they had covered that, especially since OpenGL and Direct X are two of the most popular graphics apis that are used today.


Overall it was a pretty good presentation but it did seem like it was lacking a bit.