---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 13 - Industry Speaker Response
---

I am very glad that we  had a panel of industry speakers come to talk to us. I really enjoyed that thay all played different parts in the computer science industry, from recruitment to project overseeing.

The most useful tip that was shared from the panel was that there is not always one good idea and the rest are terrible. There may be several good ideas and it takes real collaboration to succede in a project. Another useful tip that was shared along with this is that you need the ability to talk to the people you are working with and also be able to listen to what they are saying to come to a good solution. The sterotype that computer science people just want to sit at their desk all day by themselves really is not true in the work place.

Most, if not all, of what was discussed at the panel made sense to me.

While all of the companies represented had very interesting jobs and it would be great to work for them, I plan on doing something more in the physics field as my career in the future. I talked to the Garmin Aviation representative and he said that even in the aviation area all of the physics is done for them, they just need to implement it with code.

There were not any questions that I feel did not get answered well.

They discussed how college helped them get where they were. They said, from my interpretation, that it was kind of a like a stump of a tree to grow and branch their career off from. While it did not provide all of the tools they would use in their job it made easier to learn the tools that they did not have when they left college.

They said college didn not help with learning to work with others. That we need to just practice talking and expressing ideas with people in order to get better. They said it is one of the most important skills in their job was to talk to other people.

Overall it was a great experience being able to talk to people who have jobs that came from computer science. I am glad that they were able to share their experience with us.