---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 14 - Where do I go from here?
---

Where do I go from here? Well I will obviously be completing my degree, I have however switched to software engineering. Which is similar but deals less with the hardware and theory.

I do not plan on finding a job in computer science or software engineering though, it is more like a supplementary degree for me as my main love is physics. The field well complements my love for physics and my physics major. While computer science might seem to be better for physics I feel that it would be a bit redundant.

What I really want to do is theoretical physics, so at times writing software might not even be necessary. If I were doing experimental physics the story might be different. What would be great is if I could work in computational physics which is actually what I am starting research in next semester which is fun. However the programs that I am writing do not need all of the discipline that comes from computer science. I need the ability to well document and write extremely efficient, multi-threaded code as to preform our tasks as fast as possible since these tasks take up an enormous amount of computational power. This is just part of what I think I am interested in, if it turns out I do not like computational physics I will just stick to theoretical physics without the software writing, then software engineering becomes more of a hobby where I would probably make video games since they are also one of my loves and I love game engine architecture. I have tried writing game engines in the past and I could use my physics knowledge to work on physically based rendering which is also an interest of mine. Really I have so many options it is hard as a freshmen to really decide. All I know is that I love physics and I love writing code and I want to combine these to do something great.

So who knows, I may change degrees again at some point. I could be a bio major by the time I graduate. Probably not though, while I respect biology as a science it is not my kind of thing. I prefer to know how the universe works. Also you get to deal with more LASERs in physics than you do in biology and you don't get to explode molecules with light.

In summary: I love computer science and software engineering but physics is my one true love (next to pizza, or maybe physics of pizza?)