---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 1 - Personal Bio
---

Jesse Laning was born on September 16, 1996 in Shawnee, Kansas. He grew up with his two parents and his two siblings; an older brother and a younger sister. While he does not remember a lot of his early childhood, a memory that he will never forget is when his brother got a Nintendo 64 for his birthday. Jesse used to play Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2 on it all day until his brother kicked him off. The N64 changed him though, after playing on it one day he asked the question to himself "How does this work?" He wanted to know so bad. However Jesse was only six years old at the time and only had access to his dad's desktop computer that wasn't that powerful, so he put these questions aside for the next six years until his parents bought him a laptop in the seventh grade. He had no idea where it would take him. This low power Dell Inspiron would be the computer he began programming on. It started in middle school when Jesse was this super socially awkward being that pretty much refused to do anything but go the school then go home and play video games. At one point Jesse played more than twenty hours of games a week. At some point when playing all of these games he remembered his original fascination with Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2 and always wondering how it worked. This set something off in his mind, not only did he want to know how this ten year old game worked, he wanted to know how all games worked. Jesse, like all programmers at one point or another, wanted to make a video game. He began researching what made video games tick. Jesse learned about programming languages, logic statements, geometry, and much more. It was overwhelming. He had to pick somewhere to begin, but he had no idea. Then he heard about this little game called Minecraft from his brother. He researched it, found it interesting and bought a copy. After playing it for a while he also wanted to know how it worked and found that it was programmed in a language he had heard of called Java. So then like all programmers again, Jesse wanted to create a Minecraft clone in Java. It was a start though, he at least knew somewhat where to begin, with C++. Yes C++, not Java, because while trying to learn Java he had heard though a "flame war", a heated argument on the internet, on MinecrafForum.net that C++ was superior than Java.
<br/>
Jesse began to start teaching himself one of the most powerful programming languages in existence. It started with videos from a Youtuber known as TheNewBoston who had produced several videos on learning C++. After watching these videos Jesse had the knowledge to create basic text based programs. One that he recalls being one of the first programs he created was one where he would ask his dad how much money he wanted to give him and if it was less than one million dollars it would say that amount was not high enough and loop around again until the amount of money his dad said he wanted to give him was greater than or equal to one million dollars. Jesse had a blast creating these programs and knew they were the gateway drug to spending long summer nights doing game and graphical programming. As his programming knowledge evolved so did his fascination for games. He went back to Minecraft and made a mod for it, his real first game development project. He had conquered it. He knew what made a game work, he had the power at his finger tips. Jesse kept creating mods and eventually his mods became bug free and the mechanics of them got better and better until eventually one stuck, Exp Chest. A simple mod for Minecraft that lets you store your experience points in a chest of sorts, was a hit. With over a total of 200,000 downloads, the success of this drove him to create bigger and better things. While he left the Minecraft modding community he did not leave programming.
<br/>
Jesse went back to that six year old fascination of his and began to make simple games using Java. He created a simple side scrolling game where you shot bullets at ghost enemies. Then Jesse created a platformer where you used magic projectiles to kill enemies that also shot at you. As Jesse's programming skill and technique evolved so did his games. He began to want to create games from scratch, no libraries but his own. He went back to C++ and learned about this thing called OpenGL and began learning how to use it to display graphics on the screen. He created simple boxes that moved and made a game where you shot a ball into a bucket that did not work that well because he had no idea about collision detection. Jesse tried hard to create games he thought would be cool but just did not have the knowledge to make them. He spent hours every day learning new techniques and learning all new types of math to try and create the games he wanted to.
<br/>
During highschool Jesse spent all of his free time learning more and more about computer graphics and programming. If Jesse had put the same amount of effort into school as he did computer programming he could probably have gotten a 4.0 GPA, but he didn't care. He wanted to program and that's all. During the last two years of high school Jesse's programming knowledge reached a point where he could create pretty much anything he wanted to do, like small little games that were only fun to him. He created game engines with full entity-component systems. He revised these engines again and again. With the logic of the game engines working perfectly Jesse moved on to trying to make the graphics of the game look good, which was hard to do on his small computer with only integrated graphics. Jesse spent the last year of high school working with computer graphics, specifically OpenGL, his most beloved graphics API. He bought a book from Christmas money called The OpenGL SuperBible Sixth Edition. However he could not use this book at all because his computer could not runt he version of OpenGL the book was written for but this did not stop him from reading it. He read about half the book before he finally built a computer using graduation money that had support for the version of OpenGL used in the book. Jesse spent the entire summer before college programming a new game engine that's focus on graphics. He had entity-component systems he could have added to it first but instead he started with the graphics.
<br/>
Jesse is still working on this engine today and is still working on the graphics using things like buffers, tesselation, and shaders to create a platform for the most efficient and best looking graphics that he can. Jesse plans on also switching his game engine to use the new Vulkan graphics API when that standard is released. Jesse is currently a student at K-State University majoring in physics and computer science. Jesse admits he is not artistic at all so he plans to use this game engine to make the physics simulation he really wants to do look better so it can reach more people and more people can understand the physics that rules the universe we all live in.

{% include twitter_plug.html %}