---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 2 - Algorithms
---

Some common things I do that might be able to turn into algorithms are brushing my teeth, combing my hair, going to class.

There are probably many ways to implement these things into algorithms but I'll start with bushing my teeth. It would probably be easy just to do it as finding the position as a function of time. The way to do it would probably to be to map the curve of my teeth and then create a mathmatical equation that would follow that path closely. Using that you could create an algorithm that you could use to hold the toothbrush to follow and brush my teeth. this is just the just of what would actually be going on. In there there would also have to be some math to hold and rotate the toothbrush. It wouldn't be impossible to do it would just take a while to implement it. It is the same with combing my hair, I would just have to create a position vs. time function. Going to class would be similar as well except it would probably be a lot easier because there aren't many fine movements involved in walking to class.

All of these functions would probably not be difficult for a computer but creating them would the brunt of the effort. The way I do all of these things are probably not the most efficient way because I can sometimes get distracted while doing them, especially when going to class I usually talk to people on the way there. The fastest way to go to class would be to find the shortest path which would be a straight line, of course this is limited by the fact that there are walls in the way. What also keeps it from being the most efficient is that the speed I can do it versus the speed that a computer can calculate it are severely different. With brushing my teeth it is not the fastest on either because I go over some spots more than others so if a computer were to find an algorithm that would evenly get each place on my teeth it would be a lot faster than what I do it. The "algorithm" that I use is not the one that takes the lease number of steps it is definitely the one I learned first, of course it has adapted to be faster over the years than what I originally learned.

Sharing the "algorithms" that I use would be difficult because I am bad at explaining things to people.

{% include twitter_plug.html %}