---
layout: post
title: CIS 115 Blog 4 - Computer Systems
---

Radio frequency identification or RFID is in a lot of peoples everyday lives. For instance, during World War II, to help identify friendly aircraft, the Germans would roll their planes in order to create a different radar signature, thus identifying them via radio signals. It is used in things from automatic door locking systems to being used to identify a pet or even to automatically identify and track data.

One of the most common forms of RFID that is used today is the automatic door lock. This system was invented in 1973 by Charles Walton. The RFID lock is used in most types of electronic door locks as a secure way to keep only the people allowed to get into a building or room. Many private and military buildings use this type of system to keep unwanted visitors out and to keep the building secure to prevent information breaches. Without this systems there might not be ways to efficiently secure buildings, it would make things a lot more difficult for people who design and produce security systems and for the people who need those security systems.

However no matter how secure these door locks seem there are security issues. Most, if not all, unless the system was designed poorly, security issues with electronic door locks lie with the underlying technology itself. One of these issues comes with the way cards are read. Not only will a card be read when the person is scanning their card to open a door but it can also be read by someone with malicious intent who could easily conceal a card reader that can pick up data from any card that gets near enough to the reader. This data can then be spoofed or faked in order to trick the electronic lock into thinking that the person is actually carrying the card. This is probably the biggest issue with these types of locks and with RFID itself. Another issue with electronic door locks is that there is a physical card that somebody needs to have in order to get access to where they need to be. If this person loses their card or it gets stolen someone unwanted could gain access to places that they are not supposed to be able to get in to. There are ways to combat this issue such as keeping your card in a shielded container until you need it. However, this method is not 100% proven to work. While these issues do exist it is still the most popular way to have electronic door locking systems.

1) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio-frequency_identification
2) http://www.rfidjournal.com/articles/view?1338
3) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_lock

{% include twitter_plug.html %}